Encapsulating Variation
Whenan aspect
of a program changes frequently, these patterns define anobject that encapsulates
that aspect.

Objects as Arguments


The difference between
them is that Observerdistributes communication by introducing Observer and Subject
objects,whereas a Mediator object encapsulates the communication between
otherobjects.

Command, Observer, Mediator,and Chain of Responsibility address how
you can decouple senders andreceivers, but with different trade-offs.

With few exceptions, behavioral design patterns complement andreinforce each other.
A class in a chain of responsibility, forexample, will probably include at least
one application of Template Method (360).The template method can useprimitive
operations to determine whether the object should handle therequest and to choose
the object to forward to. The chain can use theCommand pattern to represent requests
as objects. Interpreter (274) can use the State pattern todefine parsing contexts.
An iterator can traverse an aggregate, and avisitor can apply an operation to
each element in the aggregate.
Behavioral patterns work well with other patterns, too. For example, asystem that
uses the Composite (183) pattern might usea visitor to perform operations on
components of thecomposition. It could use Chain of Responsibility to let
componentsaccess global properties through their parent. It could also use


Decorator (196) to override these properties on partsof the composition. It could
use the Observer pattern to tie oneobject structure to another and the State pattern
to let a componentchange its behavior as its state changes. The composition itself
mightbe created using the approach in Builder (110), and itmight be treated as
a Prototype (133) by some otherpart of the system.
Well-designed object-oriented systems are just like this—they havemultiple
patterns embedded in them—but not because their designersnecessarily thought in
these terms. Composition at the patternlevel rather than the class or object levels
lets us achieve the samesynergy with greater ease.